Supervision 2
    Exam Question 1  
        a.)  Explain the criminal offences created by the various sections of the Computer Misuse Act.  [100 words] 
            Section 1 makes unauthorised access of computer systems a criminal offense, however you have to know that the access is unauthorised. This can carry a maximum 2 year sentence but intent can be difficult to prove leading to large obvious banners parroting legal access rules when you turn on certain computer systems. Section 2 appends the intent to commit another serious offence after unauthorised access, making logging on to someone's computer and reading off their credit card info in order to commit fraud an offence worthy of 5 years in prison. Finally, section 3 covers the modification of items after unauthorised access, meaning writing viruses can now carry a 10 year punishment. This covers DDOS and the creation of hacking tools. 
        b.) What offences are likely to be committed in the following circumstances?
            a.) Alice is clearly running a distributed denial of service attack, and furthermore she is doing it with the intent to harm - I.e. she knows this form of access to the system is unauthorised. Note that if the volunteers were informed of their part in the scheme, they could also be charged. For precedence for this case, we could examine the Wimbledon case where 5 million emails were sent to a company - rendering their email useless. This was classed as a Section 3 offence and carried a prison sentence, while Wimbledon's lawyers used the defence that this usage of the system is legal as if 1 or 2 emails were sent that would be fine (so why not 5,000,000), however the test of reasonable use of a system should be "what would the system owners say if you were to ask them if you could use the system in this way" - and of course the use would be disallowed in Alice's case. Furthermore, denial of service attacks were specifically added to the law in 2008 meaning her attack would definitely be a section 3 offence which could lead to jail time of up to 10 years. Always discuss precedent - write notes on that. 
            b.) Bob has committed three (or possibly four) separate infractions of Section 3 of the computer misuse act. Firstly, illegally accessed a website and modified it without the permission of the owners. Secondly, he has distributed a virus to customers, e.g. software that uses the customers computers in a way they gave no permission for. Thirdly, he is running a Denial of service attack on the baking firm. And finally, he could be accused of distributing hacking tools to all that installed the software - but this would be more debateable, as the customers would have no idea of the tools existence.  Overall, this could result in a combined jail sentence of up to 40 years as Bob has committed multiple severe criminal offences.  Apparently section 1 in there? 
    Exam Question 2
        You have an opportunity to resell limited supplies of a discontinued model of printer at a good price.  You have doubts about how reliable the printers will be. You will sell them through a website, and want to avoid becoming committed to sell more.  
        a.) How do you plan to set up your website and use the law of contract to achieve these results? [200 words]
            I would have to make clear the difference between offering the printer, and "inviting the customer to treat" where the customer makes the offer for the printer (at the specified price) and I can choose to accept or decline the offer (meaning if I have no more to sell, I can decline the offer). This can be done by creating a Terms of Service document and linking to it clearly on the website, this should be done with the advice of a lawyer to ensure no loopholes exist. I should also draw up an electronic contract describing that the offer is an invitation to treat, and also iron out details about defective goods. Due to our limited stock, defective items should be repaired or refunded - we must make clear in the contract that the item will not be replaced. Then once they electronically accept the contract, it is legally binding. Jurisdiction need to remember that it's handled through English/Welsh law.  
        b.)  How effective will you be? [100 words]
            My effectiveness would be in question if the lack of a replacement policy was taken to court, as the customer has the right to the repair or replacement of an item within 6 years if it was faulty. So if I am unable to repair the item (and all my printers have sold out) the customer could take me to court, and dispute the contract as being unfair to the consumer. In this case a legal battle would ensue, and the results would indicate my effectiveness. The "invitation to treat" is a well known practise, and would be effective.  
    Exam Question 3
        You are commissioned by a customer to design a toy robot that children will be able to control using a smartphone app. This app will also enable them to program the robot using a simple scripting language. To simplify the networking, all communications between the app and the robot flow over Wi-Fi via your server.  
        a.) Discuss the ethical and legal implications. [200 words]
            The legal implications include problems of ensuring intellectual property rights around the scripts that customers use, ensuring we are not liable for any harm caused by the robot (ensuring the correct usage is explained in the TOS) and ensuring correct functionality. Furthermore, because the communications are routed through our servers, precautions must be taken so we act as a mere conduit. This gives the legal defence that we are not liable for damage caused by the customers use of the robot. We must make it clear in the contract, that we are not liable for scripts written that cause harm (if the script executes correctly). We must ensure the parents sign for this contract in order for it to be legally binding. May have to employ a Data protection officer depending on the scale.
            Ethically, we would like to ensure the robot cannot cause harm - and abort operation if triggers that predict harm are found. However, we have the simultaneous responsibility of respect for persons and our customer may use the tool without our meddling. We would like to uphold the law, but this could require inspection of the users code that could be viewed as a breach of privacy. Additionally, we must take into account that the users of the system are children - non-rational actors who do not have the sense to analyse a harmful use of the robot. One solution could be to make the robot very weak, so certain harmful manipulations of it are impossible. Hardware, if it breaks shouldn't hurt the child 
        b.)  Your customer decides to incorporate a microphone so that the robot can also recognise  spoken commands. To save battery life, the speech recognition will be done in the server.  What effect does this have on the ethical and legal situation? [200 words]   
            The legal situation now must include accordance to GDPR laws, as we are processing data about our customers. We must ensure the data is processed lawfully, used only for the stated purpose, the data is not kept after it is no longer needed and the processing of the data is secure enough to ensure no loss or damage to the data. We are also under obligations to keep internal records of the database as well as garner consent from our customers (must get permission from parents!). Finally, we must ensure that a process is in place so customers can retrieve any data stored about them - the simple solution being to very temporarily store the data while processing it, and promptly delete it afterwards. 
            The ethical situation changes slightly as we now have more sensitive data, that could include information from parties other than our client. The ACM code of ethics would have us respect privacy and honour confidentiality, meaning very few people should have access to the data. Additionally, we should ensure the models we use for speech recognition are not discriminatory - although there are limits, as we should not be expected to provide a universal translator for all languages if the product is only sold in England. If vulnerabilities are found we have an ethical (and legal) obligation to disclose that to the government and to parents.
        c.) What practical advice can you give your customer about mitigating the legal risks? [200  words]  
            Ensure data is stored no longer than it is needed, ideally the data should be discarded immediately after processing, this protects against GDPR laws and removes the need for a data handover mechanism. Ensure the toy is not strong enough to commit harm in obvious ways like speeding into people, this protects them from liability. Collect the parents consent before the child is allowed to use the system. Hire security experts to decrease the likelihood of a data breach or hacking, they should then implement a bug bounty program to ensure problems are caught. Ensure no data is sent from the robot to the server when the user is not trying to use it, an initiation phrase akin to 'hey Siri' or 'ok google' should be implemented. Needs to be distinct so not accidentally activated 
        d.) Your customer now wants to include a camera so that the robot can recognise gestures as  well. Does this create any further ethical or legal risks, and if so, what might be done about  them? [200 words]  
            Some further legal risks are included around the photography of children, these data are far more sensitive than audio data and the punishment for failure to uphold GDPR could be much greater. One solution to this is to disregard battery life when this feature is used, and have all the processing done on the device; meaning the data is never held on our customers servers. This also ensures we are never in possession of any illegal data. It must be made very clear and the parents should have to give informed consent that the data is to be sent to our servers if this is not put in place. Alternative is to send features like edges, no sensitive data held 
            Further ethical risks arise as this is information that can be used to identify the user and anyone in the scope of the camera, meaning the data should be kept with the upmost privacy. 
        e.)  How might the situation be affected by Brexit? [200 words]  
            While the UK is no longer a part of the EU and GDPR laws cover handling of EU based citizens, it is unlikely that GDPR will be discarded in the UK. This is because, significant altering of the GDPR laws could result in the EU deciding the UK is an unsafe place for data to be sent - vastly reducing the possible customers to UK businesses that handle data from EU citizens. However, slight altercations to the laws could occur post Brexit. E-commerce laws relating to running of the business are also unchanged after Brexit, and laws around when you need permission from parents always differed between the EU and Britain (and thus will be unchanged). If gap between UK and EU laws, would need a dedicated EU server 
    Exercise 1:
        (a) Describe three different philosophies of ethics. [300 words]   
            Consequentialism states that actions should be decided right or wrong, dependent only on their consequences. Furthermore, more positive results leads to an act that is "more right" and the opposite for more negative results. We with to maximise W = \sum U_i. However, utilitarianism requires perfect knowledge of all situations in order to assess all the good and bad consequences of an action (knowledge that any actors within such a system cannot have) it additionally requires a method of deciding if an action is good or bad and how good or bad an action is. 
            The veil of ignorance or Original position, this is a thought experiment where rule makers are given no knowledge of their family, wealth, race or creed before they are reincarnated into society - it harnesses peoples natural self interest and funnels it into the creation of a fair society. Clearly, this is because you would imagine people would want the best life possible for themselves regardless of where/to whom they are born. This could potentially suffer issues depending on the values of the rule makers, one could imagine someone who would rather die be poor who gives half the population all the resources and flips the coin to establish their life.
            The Kantian theory of duty states that an action is morally correct, if it would be willed to be a universal law. Additionally, one should treat people as an end in themselves not simply a means to an end (this could be seem as an instantiation of the first law). This mimics ideas found in many religious texts, where one should treat others as you would wish to be treated. This does face problems of perspective, as while some people would wish things to be universal law, others may not - for example an exhibitionist could be thrilled at clothes being made illegal, to the dismay of everyone in cold climates.
        b.) Which of these philosophies might be more, or less, attractive to a successful businessman  who made his money from coal or steel? Justify your answer. [200 words]
            Clearly the Kantian philosophy does not hold, as to be truly successful in business one must often treat people as pawns - additionally, they may not the utilisation of fossil fuels to become a universal law. The veil of ignorance could be more appealing, as highly successful individuals are often benefited the best upbringing - however they may balk at their hard earned money being redistributed to allow for such a scheme to take effect. Consequentialism may be their best option as there are effects that are impossible to observe, for example while the employment of people within the business is obviously positive the effects of pollution are less obvious. Additionally, one brings ones own moral compass to Consequentialism when it is decided how virtuous an action is - and the businessman may attribute his own morals as he sees fit.
    
    
Supervision 1
    Exam Question 1 
        a.)  Explain what economists mean by a lemons market. [150 words] 
            A lemon market is a market where information on the products in asymmetric, and customers cannot differentiate the higher quality products from the lower quality. As sellers have a vested interest in selling their product for what its worth (they have the knowledge on its worth), and buyers are unwilling to risk buying at higher prices for fear of buying a 'lemon', this leads to sellers selling the low quality goods rather than selling the higher quality goods at a loss until only the low quality items are on the market at all.
        b.) What is the difference between hidden information and hidden action? Give examples of  each. [150 words]  
            Hidden actions are actions taken by one side of an economic relationship that the other side cannot observe, while hidden information is information held by only one side of an economic relationship. For example when buying cars, the fact that you're a bad driver is hidden information, and making the decision to buy a safer car because you're a bad driver is a hidden action. Another example would be a worker deciding to slack off, this is a hidden action that can lead to a worse product - the employer has an incentive to associate a cost with this action, this could mean only paying the worker for good products or monitoring their work schedule.
        c.)
            a.)  You form a trade association with several other anti-malware firms and promote a quality assurance mark, perhaps with assistance from the government. [200 words] 
                This signals to the user that your item is of high quality, as the government and . While this doesn't eliminate competition (as other firms also have this quality-assurance mark) it results in poor-quality providers who can provide a cheap enough service to allow for massive undercutting of price to be less favourable by customers. This means a greater share of customers land inside the quality-assurance holding group, resulting in a larger share of the profit. However the asymmetric knowledge of the user could include the existence of this mark, and they could end up buying the cheap product they see without knowing about the mark. Additionally, the validity of quality-assurance marks (especially for anti-malware programs) can be difficult to validate by the user, as illegitimate companies could produce their own mark to trick users. There's also the problem that you may be further legitimizing your competition, where alternatives with better products where the legitimacy was previously in doubt can now be chosen safely in place of your product. Signal is good if cost high for low quality but low for high quality - to the point where lying about lemons is not profitable. Assumption being that  
            b.)  You approach the UK banks with a proposal that they certify your product for use along with their banking app products, in the sense that a customer using your  system will have exercised due diligence. [200 words]   
                This would likely be successful in making your product seem more trustworthy, as it is bundled with the air of legitimacy banks have but don't deserve. However, this would still have to combat lock-in, where people already with a malware protection service may be reticent to swap. Also, the price that would need to be paid to the banks to advertise your service would likely be very significant - and the firm would have to consider if the potential increase in customers is worth the outgoing cost. This method does have the advantage of using people propensity to go with the flow - if their banking app tells them to install a certain program, they simply go with it and not question if there are cheaper or better alternatives. Assumption being that banks have technical knowhow to detect lemons, and lemons cannot trick the banks. This would then be a good signal.  
            c.)  You tell customers that if they are the victims of a scam that used malware on their  phone you will pay their legal bills. [200 words] 
                This gives the customer a signal that you are a efficient malware detection site, as a failure in your system becomes more expensive to you meaning you are incentivized to stop such failures (very similar to car warranty). However, this will come against the behavioural psychology problem that most people don't think they would fall for a scam or trick. Additionally, if a problem with your service is found and exploited by scammers you may end up having to pay for hundreds of users refunds while the bug is still in place - this means very robust bug-checking features must be in place. This method does have the benefit that it sounds good, but few customers will be able to use it - as a tiny percentage of scam victims are able to pursue any legal action (many scammers being overseas). However, when scam victims attempt to use this service and find there's no recourse - there could be public backlash against your firm. If a firm was truly certain of their product, perhaps they would advertise refunding scam victims (who are scammed through malware their service failed to detect) rather than paying for their legal bills. Make assumptions and solve problem based off those assumptions, assume code is really bug free (obvs not realistic) - assume competitors code worse than yours, and assume claims do occur. Finally point out the drawbacks of your assumptions. Because hyper-rational customer would know few claims go to court, would know the signal is worthless. 
    Exam Question 2 
        a.)
            %LOCAL_FILE%fmDPF-dInQpQH71USeyACbGDBgB3nscLlH3JJzNT4er96vIhCtjR1TYQGylX4N1pvTc6Vt6Sr3_pZcqlcEMQgX1KadmjmFAHIMDqaEx9SY8cG9oGrHlHWDcwUI1pK1WI.png 
            b.) In case v>c, then it's always better to choose hawk (as you don't run the risk of getting 0) so must have case v<c:
If the utility of choosing hawk is the same of that of choosing doves, where hawks are chosen with some probability p, this will form an equilibrium.
            c.) Set the initial conditions and calculate:
            \frac{v-c}{2} \cdot p + v(1-p) = \frac{(1-p)v}{2} 
            \frac{vp}{2}-\frac{cp}{2}+\frac{v}{2}(1-p)=0 
            - \frac{cp}{2} + \frac{v}{2}=0 \implies p=\frac{v}{c} 
        b.) In real life encounters, the probability of death is 0 - if you strictly consider this (without replacing c with some other factor) then the optimal strategy will always to be aggressive (choose hawk) as you gain at least \frac{v}{2} and don't stand to gain 0.  
        However, if you replace c with some embarrassment factor where the other aggressive user wins the argument then the game plays out the same way as the hawk and dove game. Depending on the probability of getting embarrassed (a function of how good you are at arguing and how embarrassed you get at losing) you will decide to be a hawk or a dove .
    Exam Question 3
        a) What are the first and second theorems of welfare economics? [200 words] 
            The first theorem states that market equilibrium is pareto optimal, that is there is no further way for anyone to be made better off without making anyone else worse off - further changes would negatively impact some players. 
            The second theorem states that any pareto optimal allocation can be achieved by market forces provided preferences are convex. Preferences being convex means any line between two bundles on an indifference curve will be made up of points that are weakly preferred to the bundles on the indifference curve. So given some initial conditions, we can reach any pareto optimal allocation (whether that be communism, monarchy or anywhere in-between) can be reached using a market.
            Both of these theorems behave under certain assumptions, such as:
                Complete markets, everything is traded on the markets. 
                No transaction costs on the market.
                Perfect information with rational actors
                All consumers and firms are price takers
        (b) Give three examples of ways in which markets can fail to reach competitive equilibrium  when the assumptions of the first theorem do not hold, discussing the implications for the  information goods and services industries in each case. 
            One assumption is that the markets are complete, that is everything can be sold on the market. Consider a country deciding that food should not be sold on the free market, this will result in farmers suddenly unable to make money resulting in a decrease in a supply (without a corresponding decrease in demand). A change to government funding will have to be put in place, resulting in a lack of competition as farmers will be given a set rate. The equivalent for information goods and services industries would be if information on users could no longer be sold, platforms like Facebook and Google would have a large chunk of their business model wiped out as selling information on users through real time bidding for targeted ads is a large part of their business models.
            If the assumptions that actors in the market are rational with perfect information were not fulfilled (and generally they aren't), this could lead to people purchasing things with little to no utility - meaning people who actually require the item could suffer, and results in people having less money to spend on utility rich items - potentially leading to a decrease in price as the price people are willing to pay decreases, finally this could lead to a stagnation of growth in those industries as they have less money to expand. In relation to the tech industry, this could be people spending all their money on NFTs with incomplete information on their worth - leaving nothing to be spent on the items YouTube, Google and Facebook advertises to them.
            If the assumption that consumers and firms are price takers isn't met, then firms may list items at a price too low where they cannot keep up with demand - while they struggle and battle with the initial throws of this supply and demand curve:     %LOCAL_FILE%4rqcmEIjQt_7SHMQvvfC0rawX7bN5sS307ywCIuC9CtuiDA4SXZ6n-m_2m2tyJjY8jsZmnz5i4uL858ZndmTTYwcLCrjvqOMFW34IqhJP-2knWk6Nca6sixpTfBWWhHs.png                                                                                           Until they reach the later stages, other firms will be met with a huge decrease in demand - leading to stagnation of growth. Contrarily, if consumers buy the more expensive items when cheaper alternatives exists, competitors will have to change their product or lower prices even further to appear palatable. In regards to the information technology industry, this would be the equivalent of word becoming free to win back users of google docs - or if github started charging for the service and people kept using it.
    Exercise 1:
        a.)   Suppose that we say that an allocation x is socially preferred to an allocation y only if  everyone prefers x to y. (This is sometimes called the Pareto ordering, since it is closely  related to the idea of Pareto efficiency.) What shortcoming does this have as a rule for  making social decisions? [100 words]    
            Everyone needs to be polled in order to make any small decision, so decision making will be slow and cumbersome. Additionally, If even one person disagrees, no matter how absurd their reason is the idea will be thrown out, and as almost all decisions are likely to have some level of disagreement very few decisions will be accepted. 
        b.) A Rawlsian welfare function counts only the welfare of the worst-off agent. The opposite of  the Rawlsian welfare function might be called the “Nietzschean” welfare function—a welfare  function that says the value of an allocation depends only on the welfare of the best-off  agent. What mathematical form would the Nietzschean welfare function take? [100 words]    
            \max U_i  
            We select for the maximum utility of our population, and try and boost that. Assume we're looking at the utility of a single good 
        c.) Suppose that the utility possibilities set is a convex set and that consumers care only about  their own consumption. What kind of allocations represent welfare maxima of the  Nietzschean welfare function? [100 words] 
            At face value, improving the utility of the best off person seems to be giving them all the resources. However, then the surrounding agents will suffer and the world around the richest person will degrade. Additionally, due to the convexity of utility functions resources become less desirable the more you have of the resource - meaning more money means less to a rich person than to a poor one. Thus, while some effort must be spent further enriching the best off agent - some money must be spent to maintain their surrounding population so the best off agent needn't witness poverty or drive on broken roads. 
        d.)  The ability to set the voting agenda can often be a powerful asset. Assuming that social  preferences are decided by pair-wise majority voting and that the preferences given in the  table below hold, demonstrate this fact by producing a voting agenda that results in  allocation y winning. Find an agenda that has z as the winner. What property of the social  preferences is responsible for this agenda-setting power? [200 words] 
            %LOCAL_FILE%S1XX-5lu6CMf8Oex4OuNutrHIHl8lA_z2RtN62sSS1UOlyLVRJ7fXN8frGL6TGGjzsMr_YJbGNr_STTvSPBZZuGJtZJmTvClb6EsVz4a2kqikwXXrgbQSJqvtTl9RW_j.png 
            Not sure if my understanding of voting agenda is correct
            Obviously, without an agenda the entire vote is a three way tie. If we set the agenda to who wins out of y vs z, we have y winning - as we get to wins for y and one for z. If the agenda is x vs z, we have z winning out with 2 votes to 1. Agenda means, first have a and b fight then have b and c fight 
            I believe it's the property that people vote for the candidate they actually want to win first, and the following results are murky - especially if given a choice of the top X candidates rather than ranking all candidates. Thus, if specific candidates are chosen the results can vary wildly as less strict rules hold for the last two options.
    
Lecture 1: 
    Macro vs MicroEconomics↔Macro: Performance and structure of global economy or a nation or region.  Micro: Individuals and firms responding to incentives, how market mechanisms fail and circumstances in which markets fail.
    Prices and Markets
        Consider searching for a flat, one bed or house share - people who can afford flats will get them, and others will cycle to far away house shares.
        %LOCAL_FILE%RJdFdwqCAq_YvvqEJmjnukPI87T0GMU2tOel0cVyW8yoJAQxx6SCnpH0QIfVz6MJLmNtUDpXBR3-7ZUCIzErrtZwX-0bvHUkYRsmImVt4wuojOMT32vY-EO8qTHX4Fw3.png The equilibrium price is where the supply and demand curves corss - e.g. £500
        Consider if there's rigging - the cartel meet and restrict supply, 800 flats at £700 can earn more than 1000 at £500 - This is inefficient, houses are left empty for which there is demand. 
    Efficiency:
        A monopolist might leave flats empty, despite people being prepared to pay for them.
        Pareto Improvement↔A way to make some people better off, without making anyone worse off
        A Pareto efficient allocation↔Is such that no Pareto improvement is possible
        Pure monarch and pure communism are both pareto efficient.
        Discriminating Monopolist
            If you know what the person can pay, charge them exactly that, this is pareto efficient and lets you extract the most from the market. The monopolist captures all of the consumer surplus:
            %LOCAL_FILE%i1z7Qw6bTJvxLthQPGUlCWVpvDvoBp5rLqa46oeI4ScBvHRJLeroPu7YnmfCNlFY6GR9u6z00gATNgS873ZixfReC3zNi38M_aOH05ZUcVGhMgjh0HrrSxZ1PfEtQVyj.png 
            This is what the IT industry tries to do with different prices of service (microsoft word). 
        Consumer Surplus 
            Consumer surplus↔Is the total amount people saved off their reservation price (What they were willing to pay)
            %LOCAL_FILE%O-15rQakD1bu-vSC_cXcj6TSpt-v5tqk6yRcyAdBYwMXKfwTC8k5N7ZwWLTX67VhATkCvqjj4imubQ4tjjQOKA31QHEIX9a6Ll_wioRt23rWQcnf0lPgQfy5oGLVwZ2-.png 
            People would have payed 2000 payed only 700. Lost out on A & B. The discriminating monopolist gets the lot 
    Basic Consumer Theory:
        Consumers choose best bundle of goods they can afford. Most of the time two goods enough, books versus everything else. 
        Assume a budget constraint m, p_1 x_1 + p_2x_2 <= m 
        %LOCAL_FILE%sECy__ijlVN8kbj_fZJR4bWZyWg-uGKgWjhyHCKYxtPsD-0wwqGAl3LhbhkozcnIjzbW3PgidkM-WVKJ5K0AxxozqZvOWKCXdwyGDpeX3FC3TUfOzSNjcp2rbod-3wda.png Choices lie within this line
        Preference: 
            Using Indifference curves or isoquants, we plot where a user has no preference between bundle (x_1, x_2) \ vs \ (x_1', x_2'). They are indifferent:
            %LOCAL_FILE%Rnc8D1UP6kPGTUwukPeOKun0fV8lBEH4Pz6V5FnQKDiFoq6_cLuS8-Km9zTYqZQLT37RzJxSTJFAGVfvU9vUxXxf4920JH-yUEbBjt8RE_d4VqR7Z4LVW7lvN96wR_dW.png 
            We assume they're well behaved and don't cross, this is the weak axiom of revealed preference. I.e. If I'm indifferent to having 10 apples and 10 chocolate bars, I'll be happier with 20 apples and 10 chocolate bars.
        Perfect Substitutes: 
            Perfect Substitutes↔Don't care whether I have good 1 or good 2, e.g. sugar from Tesco vs Sainsburys.
            %LOCAL_FILE%RtW4sVt6ZsJ0q8l-QmqUbEUw5Q9eryLcS5Nmn4D30fl0DS-w5BQo2QkEPPSKuqAaimDiKYHLkdB_LUJhkNMkuPJLsjWGQh3y4EiHy9cptDrBpAwQp8itUTiUnYVSdsv3.png 
        Perfect Complements: 
            Perfect Complements↔Want exact same quantity of good 1 and good 2, left & right shoes for example.
            %LOCAL_FILE%v0o8b3wdSbHqfQhwfS0ixECIKjMrHcSB7onxgFp8l3iqdca2mLhezud9q8iNgz1_qgaWwYzpn6arhkGmVjkMK_hPuLo29m99yrgEHrbLa6ILYEXnIkSAHhjX-RNr1hHF.png This indifference curve says, once I have 1 left shoe and 1 right shoe, it doesn't matter if I have 1 left shoe and 300 right shoes.
        Bads:
            These are goods I'd rather avoid, sometimes I have to consume of the bad in order to have some of the goods.
            %LOCAL_FILE%M4iSNms1tnx-YOSJMhigTNsGoB6JonMSKNy76ZC2gStAI835LxRgzx6dSJyXqwCj8Fy0f8dlXwTcxoT_z-upEfAFNXbTHk1ptbErRrIgNayhrmjOruwqCN_0Zgmap3Yi.png 
            I'm indifferent to getting more sprouts as long as I get more turkey.
        Marginal rate of substitution
            The tangent to an isoquant gives the marginal rate of substitution. This is the exchange rate at which the consumer will trade the two.
            Convex curves: You're more likely to trade a good if you have more of it
            %LOCAL_FILE%7ECMsjYfQPiyz0X6fyHargCzgFHlL44jINYU5fjzGEQRlvSLSC-07qn4Yv5HIkq8o6B5WLRxAb276LOR8M7wg3m49zPeW6AFS_b3Uvm1NaLp7oarKvPhe57wFz4VDhrS.png 
            Diminishing MRS:
                You are less willing to pay for more books if you have less money. 
                %LOCAL_FILE%xdD_GZn9yyeAJ9L-H3Cin_MTBznLB2lJirWVTYvNfZAVBSQFCXjanoE6nI-63ytQbJfOXKTnKPuwCd8IuPO4zmLGld-XmtAn2JTbUuU_JyTAcqtzGiJGsxygUPncLikN.png 
            Utility
                Indifference curves can be parametrised.
                Marginal cost↔Cost of producing one more good or service
                Marginal Utility↔Is  MU_1 = dU / dx1 - e.g. the change in utility with respect to a given good.
                Then MRS is -MU_1 / MU_2 , utility functions can be useful for describing customer choices. And can be inferred from things like shopping patterns.
                %LOCAL_FILE%U6CZ7hN8XHwXnTqE3AbKr7UoyFEWUMREiibQn8XtkMKG0s-TWRHFj_hXoRwIZqG7mLqAeX2iNaWLS90BuXcWIAlvmgZCO2VpqCXD6Xv96xFaPQlqE7kltJAJI6nUpc0q.png 
    The Marginalist revolution:
        Why is water cheap and diamonds expensive. 
        The value of the last and least wanted addition to your consumption of a good sets its value to you. 
        Marginalism asserts that individuals make purchasing decisions on an additional item, based on the added utility it will garner them. This idea shifted thinking from costs of production to demand.  
        Local coal market has 3 producers and consumers:
%LOCAL_FILE%-vko3s4LW2USaWft_HrsAWSr10bXcb_C5wmB0s8pFnN531Eb6BWtGhU0l2dMlf523KiyQYq-k3mu56BBm7lQT_sJbEaOgR3Yj3JN8Bv_G87FdEBd-bdGFHRjpQEEBIYY.png The price of coal will fluctuate between winter and summer with demand. It's determined by the marginal transaction
    Demand 
        Market demand is the sum of the demand over the consumers. We can get a consumers demand from their utility or vice versa.
        %LOCAL_FILE%dYeW6tK9xXJ8L56YeOFbm-OJiuK9YxaS8lvYvMJKVcB0APpamzdLloeSgDbpOPJSnRrl8IR71jFS7wt2wsZLyAoYzdyYUSo5DJBQMOfksz8TqipMWqFJG9oTi_A41Nmi.png 
    Elasticity 
        Elasticity measure the effect on demand of a small change in price. When do people stop buying your product given an increase in price.
        %LOCAL_FILE%vTT7b5HI05V2gkljJuvA-N__lA99IpgPl85EaPEArA7LQI3OBb_14H0vUQULw9QgVAUM_GycldqTKIyHMo2J1HZw3pYRqif6-1eqyzoqtzvSwxdul-yfTPqtZm9LkaoP.png 
        
        %LOCAL_FILE%IwIUmuMf3EuWulCyFKAzRgs5RWZMSx4okIlM-S8wfP39AZrtjtg33kzqwB3dbZ6ETSBR92QD4B0jO2nFDj6mOSD4JMGjeB8dwCIH5gRYg2kPLMRLUdzllgofWY-7Zqsb.png 
        Elasticity = 1 means theres likely to be a substitute.
        %LOCAL_FILE%7-y8UFFxlppXF8VuLxiOQsmI4CwPQKhulJqIngb1n74FMQtaiTw18DBRmMqIVadikqJqjN-pHU7e-3nXiz_yNqBa914UqdGRQxCNTVYdm0xd0zL9LJ_6rIueMmNNsF9a.png 
        Elasticity = \frac{\text{Percentage change in quantity}}{\text{Percentage change in price}} - so if we have 10%/30% - we have an elasticity of 1/3, meaning that change doesnt have a large effect. 
    Supply 
        %LOCAL_FILE%4rqcmEIjQt_7SHMQvvfC0rawX7bN5sS307ywCIuC9CtuiDA4SXZ6n-m_2m2tyJjY8jsZmnz5i4uL858ZndmTTYwcLCrjvqOMFW34IqhJP-2knWk6Nca6sixpTfBWWhHs.png 
        Average cost of goods initially falls are more are produced, then something occurs (overtime etc) and costs rice quickly due to capacity constraints. Thus supply curve is typically convex.
    Cost Evolution
        %LOCAL_FILE%j8i2xcfsdw00xI7OybDEvjmbqTMqFbrib9AoTvvNW9kGwRQP5GxFErq8238MCh1M1BHafGLiIzkfUU1dsuUCP5NgHIVSy4clXG7KGm0JnJHRRI4EUHr_5oLEnz0j8uGf.png 
        Firms can build more factories to build capacity constraints, gives nearly constant fixed cost as firm expands.
    Firm Supply  
        %LOCAL_FILE%0eUwnpy4Evz5Y61Fw6bosytT0EYGJI4OXlf9bJsIBIyAqmN2f9C5U6bnVahOWpTroGe-JTmuDthRyGSI_wtsOKstpmXmGeAZ6iaFnRzpUr6AhGksSFSBl0tfHkJ5Muvt.png 
        MC = Average cost
        In a competitive market, at a price above p* the firm would have no demand and at a price below p* the firm would be faced with all the demand. The firms profit is maximised when it sets output so that its marginal cost equals the price p*.
    Putting it all together 
        Prices are set where supply and demand curves intersect.
        %LOCAL_FILE%2dG1jmObyO9oF7hWBzX3xm60RFWD5Z-wH5Ue-LJ9e_nn1_fam7JbMvMs266_GAa36ufhBP5oPksvynADsergwaYZE3VMQyVQSlMujO1wKRLkxT0mk-KOLp3fuOLnJSly.png 
        p* = marginal cost of marginal supplier.
        Intrinsic advantages of non-marginal suppliers (good farmlands or easily mined coal) get build into rental values - more expensive. 
    Equilibrium 
        Supply and demand for 1 good↔partial equilibrium analysis
        General equilibrium analysis adds labour, capital etc. 
        Theorems of welfare economics 
            Theorem 1: Market equilibrium is pareto optimal
            Theorem 2: Any pareto optimal allocation can be achieved by market forces provided preferences are convex.
        This has lots of conditions to be correct.
    Efficiency, welfare and justice 
        There are different theories of justice: 
            W = \sum U_i  - The average citizen, classical utilitarian welfare
            W = \min U_i  - the most miserable citizen, Rawlsian welfare
        Diminishing marginal utility of money means that transferring £1 from a rich person to a poor one improves welfare.
        Arrows impossibility theorem↔There is no perfect way to aggregate personal choices into social welfare that's consistent with democracy.
    Transaction costs
        Trades are not free, time effort comissions bargaining policing and enforcement.
        External transactions costs higher than internal ones
        Agency costs within firms also matter hugely
        Incomplete contracts, opportunistic behaviour comes out.
        So should tech make firms smaller on average? 
    
Lecture 2:
    Effect of technology on supply and demand: 
        Increase of supply much easier than other industries, marginal costs may never rise. Microsoft enjoys ever increasing returns to scale. 
        Technology can also improve efficiency.
    Competition and information:
        Marginal cost of producing information is zero. Market clearing price. Encyclopedia vs wikapedia
        Machine readable phon ebooks, Nynex charges 10000 per disk, ProCD starts selling for 300 - finally price dropped to $20.
        Nowadays free online, how do you make money from selling information?
    Lock-In:
        Buying a product commits you to buying more of it, or spending money on one or more of (consider apple): 
            Accessories - apps for phone
            Skills - fluency with microsoft
            Services - network service for phone
        Time and effort and bother to change.
        Fewer people change their bankers than their spouses.
        Fundamental Theorem:
            The net present value of your customer base, is the total cost of switching.
            Suppose it costs £25 pounds to get a new customer, and it costs a customer £50 to switch. If you offer them £60 cashback to switch and customers are worth £100 to you - The customer is £10 ahead and you're £15 ahead.
            SO the value of microsoft is what it would cost people to switch to google docs and linux. 
        The incumbend will strive to maximise switching costs, competitors to minimize them
            File format wars
            Loyalty programs 
            Phone number portability
        Incumbents promote complementary goods and services that increase lockin, tied printer cartridges to G suite.
        Asymmetric switching costs, a phone network may supply a phone to win a customer, but keeping them they can simply offer minutes which costs nothing.
    Network Externalities:
        Networks more valuable the more people use them.
        Metcalfe's law↔The value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of users.
        More complex than this, local effects are stronger, but still more than linear.
        Overall effect - past some threshold, network use takes off rapidly and creates lock-in (telephone takes off as more people have them).
        Real networks like fax and email, virtual networks like pcs and software. 
        Most people choose to buy PCs rather than macs because of software. Then people decided pc was winning, so people just developed software for PCs. This pushed microsoft forwards.
        It works for bads as well as goods, malware writers target windows while mac and linux are also vulnerable.
        %LOCAL_FILE%4zvGoVnMRgE48-8A6GJHCZmDyD5mS0Pkp0xFV_cUPCjZdKgAKmX9BWKFCAaTHMIzYkMqoguOzoC1jDcS5YatuMeEzaDD9zfs-PBtenaEFP3BTJCum_yNmSdrM3d7THgW.png 
        Markets with network effects can "tip", one suddenly taking over. Consider rail gauges in the 19th century. Colour TV standards in the 1950s. Paypal vs other payment startups. Facebook vs myspace. Google meet, skype, zoom etc.
    Strategic issues:
        High fixed cost + low marginal cost. Significant switching cost due to lock in and network externalities. Tends to lead to a dominant firm market model.
        Given all three monopoly VeRY likely. 
        Hence the race for market share when a new product or service market opens. IBM very well engineered, windows ship it tuesday and get it right by version 3. 
        Is your customer acquisition cost still less than the lifetime revenue.
        How bad are monopolies? No competition to allow equilibrium, however what if consumers arent paying anything? EU LAW: A fairly-won monopoly is ok, but cant leverage monopoly in one field to another - google cant direct people to their travel service.
        US - monopoly used to be measured by consumer surplus, doesnt work for google and amazon. 
    Price discrimination:
        An efficit monopolist sells to each customer at their reservation price.
        Pigous three degrees of price discrimination:
            Personalized pricing - haggling or loyalty cards
            Versioning - first class vs economy
            Group pricing - student
        Tech increases the motive for price discrimination, have more information about you. Also firms are more likely to have market power.
        Price discrimination is often unpopular, people don't want to pay more for the same things. 
    Bundling: 
        How to conceal discrimination - selling a number of products together.
        A & B price willing to pay for word and excel:%LOCAL_FILE%nbzIJ1zjMLLSUb48JiYJcBC556k1-06cjLSkbAqBf6PyOqKYZbC_s1vV0Ki0-js5medhE1e8q6zaTxUO_7wt7tludXk-1sj8prILOrpRYCUd70Rdg7GhAAmosxXqN4Ts.png            By bundling word and excel together, they can make £125 per customer, rather than £50 or £75 each.
    Income distribution:
        %LOCAL_FILE%dCQbixGY2SMyLGp7phuvx8Bpv40tdxMvcqMDSJrkaTbj6X2QT60UstgET7AjpxfMqy7LbLcAnFbKYBegmCtQHdbNYZ-J7bfV0qvYUcTe7MkSaxGRWr6bIWBb6puzisw1.png 
        The Gini coefficient is used to measure inequality. Gini = A/(A+B) where B is the cumulative income distribution. If Gini = 0 then communism, Gini =1 then the king has the lot.
        Gini falls with development, rate of violent crime correlates with the Gini coefficient. US has similar Gini coefficient to a 3rd world country. The poor fight harder for welfare than the rich resist them.
        Democracy is strongly corelated with equality, however cuts both ways. Farm subsidy that gives each farmer £200000 but costs non farmers £200. 
Lecture 3:
    The Business Cycle: 
        Global economic crisis, money out of banks, banks bought out leading to economic debt doubling. The more recent economic crisis was not as deep as the last, but the recover has not been as thorough:
        %LOCAL_FILE%zoTwERlnGfC_RiVFcJ1dOuWTgSPSSAYBF3IdssGfOc6JqVzNJPfGNqJHhPFTr637zqbghRfc0-vT2-qVgxU6xSlW0wkQn7JM0qezdregQ8wDhc5LhSPxAU-J1aLmdu0K.png 
        Pandemic causes greater impact on economy than the 2007 crisis, tech industry doing much better than other industries. 
        Why the pattern of boom and bust?  
        Mill and Ricardo argued that: demand for goods + savings = supply of goods + investments. Further savings = investment, so demand = supply. Meaning that the market for money needs to be considered, just the market for goods.
        People want a certain level of savings, maybe 3 months salary. In a recession, liquidity preference rises.
        In a boom, people and firms borrow assets that can be sold later. A bank that takes in £100 pounds in deposits might lend out £94, meaning £6 of capital underwrites £94 of lending. 94/6 = 15.7  
        In a recession, loans go bad, share prices of banks fall and banks call in loans, capital requirements increase so governments compete for available loans. Money supply contracted leading to large unemployment.
    Recession and Tech:
        Booms as people built railways, Electricity replacing steam lead to boom, mass production of cars led to a boom. Whole industries replaced with online alternatives, amazon half of book market, newspapers move to online. 
        Increase in demand of online shopping.
    Trade:
        Wealth of Nations - if a foreign country can sell something cheaper, buy it with produce from own industry, employed in a way in which we have some advantage. Was a radical view, previosuly maximizing exports and minimizing imports.
        %LOCAL_FILE%Pj6uafDRyN_Xgjw4HIGLkLjzqN033NruSKXd6dKINmjEs4wCRkco_Dnr73azj7MY6vrAFk6m1ZVyUsnAmytxBDho2eP6yNvIQNKiK9g2dy49PjKClnxycSM4Yy576RwD.png 
        Comparative advantage, England unit of wheat costs half a unit of wine, while Portugal costs 2/3 a unit of wine.
        %LOCAL_FILE%4IQclGj4j4zfCGoEPFsD7fpo_xlYYips86GGOC2nfPQneZvkEeEGBjrgaYIX8eiTs5Zi5XpdvU69zkTog9TUpcIhQaqb9ljag_MKYQhQzXlIUHuyFl3kvF5vW2ye-TwW.png 
        If each play to their advantage, each are better off. 
        Capital v labour, outsourcing.
        Under perfect competition, free trade optimal but there are still losers in this case English Vintners.
    Growth:
        Output = f(land, labour, capital). Implies colonization and increase in capital. 
        States invested in industry for time, as governments could borrow money cheaper than private companies.
        Neoclassical school, all about technology and population growth.
        Modern view, mostly knowledge that leads to growth. 
        Prescription, world should spend 4 times more on research and development.
    Tragedy of the commons:
        If 100 people each graze a sheep on the commons, if one person adds another sheep he gets 100% more and you get 1% less. That small decrease is unlikely to cause a row, meaning the logically correct move is to have more sheep.
        Leads to overgrazing, overfishing etc.
        Welfare theorem assumes complete property rights, this can be used as a reason to privatize common property and fence it off.
    Externalities:
        Effects that people care about but not traded - side effects.
        Consumption externalities include smoking in restaurants, increased education decreases crime. Competitive equilibria are unlikely to be pareto efficient in light of consumption externalities.
        Can in theory fix with property rights, can only have 100 sheep on the commons.
    Public Goods:
        Scientific knowledge is a public good. 
        Public bad being CO2 emissions, every country affects it equally meaning temptation to free ride.
        Can capture benefit from scientific discovery, without contributing. Need to institute grants, nobel prizes, doctorate programs etc.
    Club Goods:
        Traditional communitites can limit scale.
        Fishermen in a community can gather and form a rota, signed by the mayor. This is self-enforcing, have the right to chase people off.
        Needs to be a small enough group to come together and make decisions. 
    Enter Politics when the club breaks down:
        Buchanan: " Politics is  a structure of complex exchange among individuals, a structure within which persons  seek to secure collectively their own privately  defined objectives that cannot be efficiently  secured through simple market exchanges  "
    Monopoly Rents:
        Firms will enter a market until excess profits competed away, if no barriers to entry in place. 
        Economists define a rent as an excess, undeserved income resulting from barriers to competitions. 
        Rent seeking drives much of politics.
        What if we regulate prices?
            Sometimes an increase in prices through regulation can help the owners rather than the workers, taxi license cost.
            Taxi license bubble.
    Asymmetric information:
        100 used cars, 50 which break down $1000 and 50 which work well $2000 - would think price would be the average. But buyers cant tell the difference, so price is $1000. 
        Additionally, if the price was $1500 those with the good cars wouldn't sell - leading to only the bad cars getting to the market.
        Can offer a warranty, this is cheaper for those with good cars and acts as a signal for the hidden information. Signalling theory important for recommendation systems like Google, eBay, Uber... 
        Uber drivers more likely to be courteous than black cab drivers,  due to their attached rating. 
        Do Volvo drivers have more accidents because:
            Bad drivers buy volvos to survive - adverse selection.
            Drivers go faster due to increased safety - moral hazard
        These are examples of hidden information and hidden actions. Adverse selection is a lemons market.  
    Behavioural Economics:
        Classical economics - indivifuals are rational, they maximise utility with no cognitive limitations.
        Behavioural economics:
            Behaviours deviate from this, based on experimental psychology. 
    Bounded Rationality:
        People tend to act intuitively rather than rationally, Prospect theory: People offered £10 or a 50% chance of £20 people prefer the former. If it's a loss, they usually prefer the latter.
        Framing actions as saving can make them more efficient. Political marketing with terorrism takes advantage of this.
        Cyber crime vs terrorism. 
        Satisfice↔People want to make just-good-enough decisions. Stop once meet goals.
        Hyperbolic discounting, discount events likely to occur in the future. 
        The endowment effect→People are more willing to buy an object than sell the same object.
    Cultural Biases:
        The way in which people make consistently irrational decisions. It was noted that machine translation from gender-neutral turkish text made Doctors hes and nurses shes. 
        How to capture implicite biases ingrained in culture?
    Nudge Theory:
        Application of behavioural economics to policy. Consiiders how choices are presented, this can have a powerful effect. Can induce individuals to make better choices, but does not affect underlying structural issues. 
    The Power of defaults:
        Most people go with the flow. Accept product as it comes out of the box. Checkboxes to opt out of market hard to find, used to have to sign up for pension now its opt out rather than in.
        Organ donation laws in Spain opt-out, now has highest donation rate in the world.  Same in the UK.
        What is the ethical requirements related to opting in/out to sharing of medical data for research.
    Agency effects:
        Classical economics sees instutions as rational, however managers make decisions that improve their personal utility as well. 
        Some companies give stock options to align interest, public choice economics apply this incetive analysis to civil servants and politicians.
        Why do public sector IT projects fail more than private sector projects? 2/3 fail in public sector, vs 1/3 in the private sector. 
Lecture 4:
    Auctions:
        Corporate takeovers to house sales are also really auctions. Auctions are a big success of the internet, from eBay to Google. 
        Types of auctions: 
            English, start at reserve price and raise till a winner is left.
            Second price sealed-bid auctions, highest bidder wins and pays second highest bids.
            All-pay auctions: everyone pays at every round until one remaining bidder gets the goods. Times of war or litigation.
            Dutch, start high and cut till somebody bids.
            First-price sealed-bid auctions: one bid per bidder. Higher bidder wins.
        Strategic equivalence:
            Dutch and first price the same result, highest bidder gets the goods at their reservation price. Should bid low if you think your valuation is much higher than everybody else's.
            Second price and English the same - best to bid truthfully. 
        Revenue Equivalence:
            Not who will win, but how much is paid on average.
            According to the revenue equivalence theorem, you get the same revenue from any well-behaved auction under ideal conditions.
            Conditions Include:
                No collusion
                risk-neutral bidders
                Pareto efficiency (highest bidder wins)
                reserve price
                independent valuations
        What goes wrong?
            Private value auction, every bidders value is personal and the piece generally has no intrinsic value - say art.
            In public value auctions, the items do have an intrinsic value - say oil drilling rights. The buyer is the sucker who overestimated the most - the winners curse.
            Most real auctions lie somewhere between the two.
            Bidding rings: 
                Bidders collude to buy low, have a private auction later and split the proceeds. 
                First price auctions harder to rig, everyone must collude. Second price easier to bid. New Zealand bit of 7000000 payed only 5000.
                Deter people from entering low quality bids, TV rights where detailed programming plans need to be drawn up. However, placing barriers can result in larger companies scooping up all the TV rights at low prices.
                Predation: we'll top any other bid - aggressive behaviour designed to scare people off. 
                Also sniping, where a bid is placed in at the last second.
            Bidders should be risk-neutral, however rationality is bounded - with most people being risk averse. People put in bids that are far to high, from fear of not getting the item.
            Bidders may pay signalling games, show aggression by a price hike - bidding for TV, do a price hike in their area if they are trying to buy in your area.
            Also budgets constraints, revenue equivalent theorem only works for infintie money. 
            Externalities between bidders - profit from selling to both sides with arms.
        Combinatorial Auctions: 
            Externalities may lead to preferences for particular bundles of goods.
            Bid $x for A+B+C or $y for A+D+E
            Critical app for CS, routing in presence of congestion. This is NP complete.
            How can we make an auction strategy-proof, if its second price people have the incentive to tell the truth (pay too much and someone else may have as well, suffer winners curse).
        Ad Auctions:
            Google makes about a third of all digital advertising revenues.
            Basic idea, second price auction mechanism but tweaked to optimise platform revenue.
            Bidders bid prices p_i platform estimates the quality e, and then ad rank a_i = p_i e_i
Where ad quality is a function of the relevance and the clickthrough rate.
            %LOCAL_FILE%rZvVd8BnX4p36wkAIOnBIrPmXwuFBJdQxmIh8Qe9GK6s4uUrME6cRllFuxR2NMrCB3yoWAgdgy1N6zL0wUu-KcXkC20MyaUQWYnmTvmuNJyIQOsuDfzhzRisOx-fBZf3.png 
            With four people bidding for the first ad position, jerry has the highest rank. And has to pay 1.50 per click - This is calculated by taking Elaine's score divided by Jerry's score multiplied by his bid \frac{6}{8}\cdot2 = 1.5 
            Each advertiser is paying less than they initially bid, but as their bid affects their ad rank they have an incentive to tell the truth about their valuation. 
            Ethical Aspects of ad auctions:
                Ad quality can easily transform into virality, so if your ad is good as clickbait you pay less. Trump paid less than Clinton. 
                Many sites then tend to server more provocative and extreme content, as they have a high quality score.
    Game Theory:
        Cooperation or Conflict:
            If you want something, you can: Make something of value and trade for it - Economics.
            Just take it, by force or the ballot box - Politics.
        Game theory is a focus on games of strategy, with problems of cooperation and conflict among independent decision makers.
        Games of perfect (chess) or imperfect (battleship) information
        Example matching pennies, if two pennies are different Alice gets bobs penny - else he gets hers. The strategic form is:   %LOCAL_FILE%E9YwIxeKkXu1lqHplqGdrv_SHFUVKUHeKCQ0LjNFA2RkUPgpGYpM9dx0TQDat9fJSZHyo3ucSbKnSSli5sD1DGJ6U4X0iuD4kGbUSbku1aF_nviqMyBS4KXuRX45cTNQ.png 
        Zero sum game↔One players gain is anothers loss.
        Consider this strategic form: %LOCAL_FILE%7TKd0Fp1aHGZbdkyQUxKi5Lxr39MDqVSauBOuS5_ILDagnfuq3y8xDZpKU7WO3cUdRUOxI39qP_e_gTMxp77RedwPik8XjbZIJFsO-d9ygFuVS4fwcq-Lq2yktrAgeqf.png         Bob is always better off playing left, regardless of whatever Alice plays. A strategy is an algorithm - input state and output play.
        Nash Equilibrium:
            %LOCAL_FILE%J9BK-4asv8GkG0WFHEGH2Ivz9dwSg2HWDoeAOGFE-aSRAY4bHh3dXjS0Hvr5UV3offClGwlr7A8bhcXq86_K-1AzlFUCkc8C7OIkI1aT2YjaerrHGfYmTPjBsoKQt9Fn.png 
            The optimal strategy depends on what they think the other will do. 
            Nash Equilibrium↔Two strategies are in Nash's equilibrium when A's choice is optimal given B's and vice versa.
        Pure v Mixed Strategies:
            Rock paper scissors - has no Nash equilibrium. 
            Alice plays scissors ⇒Bob plays stone ⇒ Alice plays paper... Fix this using a random algorithm.
            Deterministic algorithms called pure.
        Prisoners Dilemma:
            %LOCAL_FILE%4_VH7AgZnVE6DQrL2943-HqDL8F7f1NDAfUYJZB-X8mT4VDHQqgzh-JYPMGEf9hLXsKvfxXNcOz9Pvih0aGZU8jv4owcwStUmIe7GRsQcAJ4TUzbhKHfXmC4Q8XcihTI.png 
            Both will cheat rather than cooperate, applicable to defense spending - fishing quotas etc.
            If played repeatedly - Tit for Tat solution. Cooperate at round n, do what other guy did at round n-1.
        Price Fixing:
            If it costs x to fly from A to B, to flights compete and spend x + 5, OR collude and charge 2x?
            Competition laws forbid price fixing cartels. Bug can occur naturally. Try charging 500 and see what other airlines do. If they defect by competing, play tit-for-tat.
        Stag Hunt:
            People have to work together to hunt stag, but hares can be caught individually. 
            %LOCAL_FILE%phJ_0IA1kUxgZYTwYfjs5TWPxZiCXUMMC1qx9kAoUpv0roCC9Cls5Rr9qdpSL-CjWTPL2-8RQ6N1tEj2kYlbRduANgpGaXXQL0Tz0-Zyps4fQF0SD6nqGzWru57hCkci.png 
            Only chase hare if you believe your buddy will defect.
        Volunteer's dilemma:
            %LOCAL_FILE%4TatYBq4ak-QZMZdc2hj8oynqq_AaHmyBrGd6Ykw8EoRQLCVM5Nq6tjPAMeWuEZdjr88WrIUBrGCm-gLpzVv4L-qBZ9zWodZffo_2QzfuJLCg4a3_o6ME9AKW6ca1s-P.png 
            Leader shows bravery.
        Chicken:
            %LOCAL_FILE%1ns9L4OCTV0Luda7C0jR0aQ6SMnCZPNYWqJI6637KmuvrYiTGh1Y5Oj-WVYv9J3lkUB7894mIUe5BHvLaViUXT4UVVbs-d1wlaVKF2LXe8ZMd7UNuzY7MxJx0XseT_5p.png 
            Iterated version of chicken ⇒ hawk dove game.
        Hawk Dove Game:
            Food v at each round, doves share and hawks steal from doves. Hawks fight with risk of death c.
            If v > c, whole population would become hawks - if c>v then hawks will start to die off and an equilibrium reached.
            %LOCAL_FILE%fmDPF-dInQpQH71USeyACbGDBgB3nscLlH3JJzNT4er96vIhCtjR1TYQGylX4N1pvTc6Vt6Sr3_pZcqlcEMQgX1KadmjmFAHIMDqaEx9SY8cG9oGrHlHWDcwUI1pK1WI.png 
            \text{note}: (1 - c)v/2 = \frac{v-c}{2}  
            if v > c:
                If one player chooses Hawk, the other should also choose Hawk, as (v-c)/2 > 0
                If one player chooses Dove, the other should choose Hawk, for the same reason.
                So hawk dominates. 
            if v < c: 
                If one player chooses hawk, choose dove.
                If one player chooses dove, choose hawk. 
            Small number of hawks prosper, as most interactions will be with doves. DO THIS: at hawk probability p setting hawk payoff = dove payoff.
            %LOCAL_FILE%xXsTJGAs1j2Rt3ZGXAFFl7tRuvM7ICZf_NUdOoVkV-OjMxssCw1B8-XRpKiWrV3pIf9DIIQ8kF3Ui556E7zsM9rrmUU11er2-fUmGlMbsso-wIczS2xn9-OZyTxDxd9G.png 
            So stable equilibrium at p=v/c, Models the probability that population in a species will be aggressive.
        Broader Implications:
            In pre-state societies, better kill someone you don't know. We know live in more fair society. Evolutionary basis of morality, fairness from tit-fot-tat - hierarchy from hawk-dove.
            Internet - less cooperative social mechanisms and more echo chambers. No equilibrium reached as in hawk dove. 
        
        
    
    
Lecture 5:
    
    What is law?
        Can't get all we want through buying and selling through marketplace - because of externalities
        Politics system which persons seek to secure their own objectives, which cannot be achieved through simple market exchanges.
        The main mechanism is law!
        Many origins & flavours, state religion common Roman Napolean etc. We are interested in Criminal and civil law 
        Criminal: Alice harms bob seriously, so state prosecutes her
        Civil law: Alice harms Bob or breaks a contract, Bob can sue Alice 
        SIGNIFICANT OVERLAP - if police too busy and there's an assault can sue.
        Difference between showing image in video to pirating large scale
    Criminal Law:
        Requires:
            A guilty act
            A guilty mind - if no intent cant be prosecuted. 
        Prosecution must prove guilt beyond reasonable doubt
        CPS guidelines matter and agreements - e.g. with the IWF. Hacking tools are offensive if they are intended to be used for damaging or stealing from computer systems. Wireshark could be considered a hacking tool! Need a good reason.
    Civil Law:
        Contract - making the agreements you want
        Tort - avoiding infringement of the rights of others, give adequate notice to other of your rights you want to enforce
        Regulations - specific things needed to avoid penalties and enforce your rights
        International law - agreement with customer in other countries
    Contracts:
        Offer and acceptance my competent people, for a lawful purpose. Must be at least 10 years old! Need both people to supply something
        Can be made in writing, orally, by conduct
        We make dozens of informal contracts every day. 
        When you have offers, this isn't an offer but an 'invitation to treat'. The customer then makes the offer and the shopkeeper accepts!
        This is important if you run out of stock, won't get sued.
        Linking to terms and conditions generally enough - train ticket too small
        Many laws require some contracts in writing - in USA all goods over $500
        Many jurisdictions have electronic signature laws; electronic writing fine as essence of signature is intent. 
        Clicking on button evidence of intent in the us since 2000
    Limits:
        You're now liable for any malware you give to customers 
        Retailer has one chance to repair or replace - - else refund.
        Can't enforce unfair contracts against retail customers
        Can't exclude liability for death or injury, even if excluded in contract
        However, this doesn't apply to services. If your satnav sends you to an inappropriate place, the makers can be sued - not so for google maps 
    Globalisation:
        Can be tiresome for a firm in the UK to be sued in Australia, need to make it clear who's laws apply and separately where claims should be heard.
        Enforcement of foreign judments not straight-forward, USA is rogue
        One fix is to specify arbitration - private civil law 
    Arbitration:
        Contract can specify binding dispute resolution by an arbitrator
        Can also specify applicable laws and other things like limits on cost
        Arbitration awards are recognized and enforceable everywhere.
        This is a method of optimizing and privatizing the law to settle disputes between companies. 
    Costs:
        US system - Each side pays own costs in sueing. Can be expensive for some firms 
        UK system - Loser pays the winners cost, over £5000 pound threshold outside of small claims court - rich consumers can ruin you, but poor customers may lose their house.
    Tort:
        Second main way you can become liable online, after contract
        A tort, is a wrong which unfairly causes someone else to suffer loss or harm
        Examples are negligence, defamation or copyright infringement
    Negligence:
        Arises if you break duty of care, e.g. if you cause a car crash, you are liable for damages to cars
        Doesn't apply to indirect harm, if you cause a traffic jam its too hard to measure the damage 
        Usual yardstick is the standard of the industry. E.g. if some banks start using 2fa, all banks need to do that to not be negligent
        Insurance laws tied up with liabilty, car crashes - medical malpractise.
        If you software harms a non-customer, you didn't disclaim liability as they didn't make a contract with you - negligence rather than breach of contract  
    Defamation:
        Libel (if spoken, slander) is a tort, UK is a popular venue for this 
        Direct defamation; innuendo; linking
        Burden of proof on defendant in UK
        Uk system of costs shifting, loser pays winner's costs.
        Defamation act 2013, excludes trivial claims, creates public interest defence - journalist can claim public interest. Makes the claimant pursue the author first rather than the organization they work for
    Intellectual Property:
        Patents:
            Mechanism to tackle lack of money given to R&D from externality in research
            Protects an invention which must be: 
                Novel (no prior ideas)
                Useful (Not something that doesnt work)
                Non-obvious (to something skilled in the art) 
            Typical duration 20 years - Only granted if applied for - Also will most likely want to apply for one in multiple countries. 
            Traditionally only physical inventions
            Public key encryption made huge amounts of money
            But the economoic case is weak, except in the pharmaceuticals - to IT firms, patents are a nuisance many thousands of patents that are said to conflict
            Software patents not allowed in Europe in theory, often discarded by courts. The court keeps stretching this - not to be believed. 
            In general innovation in CS very incremental - thousands of ideas in code, as opposed to a blockbuster molecule drug.
            So far only 4 CS patents earn serious money
            Microsoft has an open invention network, "trade patents"
        Trademarks:
            Marks that distuinguish your good or service (IBM)
            May be registered (®) or not (TM) - registering can make litigation easier. If registered, usually win in domain name disputes
            Can sue infringers, but have to show misrepresentation damages your business 
            McDonalds used to sue anyone with Mc in the name in catering - too aggressive. 
        Copyright:
            Statue of Anne, protects your literary works - extending from novels and drama to art, music. Beforehand, courts gave monopolies to businesses to write books of particular types. Oxford making dictionaries 
            Is the main protection of software - No need to register but asserting copyright can make litigation easier
            Duration of copyright has steadily increased, lifetime + 70 years. Walt Disney
            Protects against copying - but fair use and fair dealing get outs from criticism
            Moral right - right to be recognized as creator remain yours even if copyright is sold. Can refuse that your sold work be published if damaged
            Many orphan works, where author not known. This stalled the Google Books project
            How to avoid software having thousand of competing claims -  Stallman GPL Licence if you use free work, yours additions must be free too. BSD license allows companies to use as they like
            Creative commons gives a general framework for sharing 
        Other IPRs 
            Specialist rights
                Databse rights 
                US semiconductor chip protection act
                Plant breeder's rights
                Design rights
            Rights based on contract
                Materials transfer agreements 
                Confidential information NDAs
            Limits - employers cant restrict knowledge that becomes part of the tools of your trade - if become very good at coding at Google, can go elsewhere
        DRM - Digital Rights Management
            Copyright ownders panicked at printing, internet, cassetes 
            Huge push to introduce DRM - but shifted power to Apple, Google, Amazon from old-style record companies
            US law made it illegal to mess with DRM mechanism
            Lexmark vs SCC case allowed for reverse engineering for compatibilty - allowed people to circumvent Lexmaark ink cartridge certification
            October 2018 - John Deer put software in tractors that made them stop working if taken to unauthorised repairers - breaking this illegal, but selling tools to break it legal. 
            Open-source tools grey area still
        Strategy:
            IPR often a combination of patents, software copyright, MTA
            IT industry strat, patent portfolios mostly defensive, used to get access by cross-licensing
            Compound models, GPL the linux version and sell the Windows version - can then charge for support and other things
            Startups: VCs like to see some IP
Lecture 6:
    UK Law and the Internet
    Computer Evidence:
        Until 1968, relying on computer evidence was akin to hearsay - e.g. if Fred says something, Fred should speak in the witness box. Civil Evidence Act 1968 solved this, computer must be operating properly.
        Police & Criminal Evidence Act 1984: Required evidence to be brought by an expert that system was operating correctly. Now replaced by presumption that its operating correctly, if disputed the relying party must demonstrate their computer works right
    GDPR:
        Applies to EU firms from 25 May 2018. Law has survived Brexit, unchanged so far. If Uk changes too much, EU might stop sending data. Applies to those who process data about people residing in EU 
        Aim is to protect the interests of the Data Subject. Differs from US privacy protection landscape, companies volunteer to not do types of processing for privacy. 
        Six Principles to be compleid with, data must be:
            Fairly and lawfully processed
            processed for limited purposes 
            adequate, relevant and not excessive
            Accurate and up to date 
            Not kept in  aform that identifies for loinger than you need it 
            Processed securely and protected against loss or damage - losing just as bad as having it stolen
        Extra protection applies for "sensitive personal data" - health, about political affiliation, trade union etc.
        Requirements to keep internal records of your databse:
            Who you are, the type of data and who provided it
            Retention schedules, how long until its discarded or anonymised
            Security arrangements, technical & organisational 
            Details of transfers (especially when 3rd countries involved) 
        Essential to identify why processing is allowed:
            Consent: for each purpose, data must be freely given (no bribes), specific, informed and unambiguous (no pre-ticked boxes)
            Contract - will say what data gas company keeps and who they share it with
            Legal compliance, banks have to keep some data
            Vital interest of a human, public interest, legitimate interest (have a legitimate reason to process and run their business - complex), member state specific reasons, crime & justice ... etc 
            Must get permission from parents if under 16 (UK: 13)
            Regulations apply all across the EU right from when it's put in place, unlike directives. Intent to have consistent set of rules across EU. 
        GDPR provides the following rights for individuals:
            The right to be informed - privacy notice that explains processing
            The right of access - systems need to be designed to provide data
            The right to rectification - complicated when opinions come in
            The right to erasure - if you have no compelling reason to keep the data, right to remove it. Google has this problem, man bankrupt 10 years ago
            Right to data portability - allowed to get a copy to feed it into a different system
            Right to object - they have to record this, can hold but not process or remove
        New systems must have data protection designed in - may have to do impact assessment
        Data breaches must be reported to regulators within 72 hours - plus a req to notify data subjects (if data high risk) 
        Fines can now be much bigger - used to be 500,000 now percentages of world wide turnover! BA got a 1.5% fine got reduced to 20,000,000 as shopping card got hacked
        Firms processing data at scale (& public authorities) must have a Data Protection Officer
            Can be a contractor
            Must be capable of advising on GDPR obligations
            must monitor compliance with GDPR
            must report to the board and cannot be fired for doing their job!
        DPO optional for other firms, but must have sufficient staff & skills to discharge their duties under GDPR
    Computer Misuse Act 1990: 
        Various hacking activities in the 1980s, prosecuted with forgery or criminal damage legislation
            Gold & Schifreen gained top level access, altered messages in the Duke of Edinburgh's mailbox. Originally found guilty and fined, forgery convictions overturned on appeal
        Failure of existing legislation to be effective led to legislation cover hacking, virus propagation etc.
        Section 1:
            Unauthorised access to a program or data, - need to know it's unauthorised 
            Need not be a specific machine (or in the UK) 
        Section 2:
            As S1 but done with intent to commit another serious offence
            Raises the stakes from 2 to 5 years - s1 was a mere 6 months but amended in 2008
        Section 3:
            Unauthorised modification - tariff is up to 10 years 
            Intended to make virus writing illegal
            Added denial of service of attacks in 2008
            Making/distributing hacking tools is illegal since 2008 - confusing when white hats use
        Case Law is Chequered:
            Fines often much smaller than damages caused 
            Only aroudn 20 cases a year, often easier to chrage under Fraud act
            Paul Bedworth got off on an "addiction" defence - couldn't know what he was doing was wrong
            Whitaker convicted (but conditional discharge) for not disclosing a time-lock that froze the software when clients were late on making payments
            Pile convicted and received custodial sentence for writing virus
            AMEX case shows multi-level access can matter - not entitled to access part of system so unaurthoised access
            police officer found to access data on a car parked outside ex-wifes house to find out who it belonged to. Found to be legal, but subject to disciplinary action 
            Wimbledon case, mail bombing with 5 million emails is an s3 offence - test of unauthorised becomes "If I were to ask would they say 'yes'" I.e. Can I send you 5 million emails, No.
            Cuthbert ("tsunami hacker") convicted of s1 offence for trying out ../../../ URLS. Donated money and poked around in the website, lied to the police.
    Electronic Communications Act 2000:
        Part II - electronic signatures:
            Admissable in evidence
            Creates power to modify legislation to allow the use of electronic communications or storage
            Not as relevant in practise. Most companies care more about if you have the money, than who you are
    Investigatory Powers Act 2016: 
        Replaces RIP Act 2000
            Much remains the same, but legalises lots of things that Snowden revealed - made to allow GCHQ and the NSA to keep doing what they were doing before
        Deals with interception - revealing content other than the sender/receiver 
        Deals with communications Data 
            Metadata describing communication - length of communication, IPs, etc.
            Provides for retention regime by ISPs
        Permits equipment interference (with a warrent) cab put malware on your system
        Permits bulk initerception, bulk acquisition, bulk equipment interference and collection of bulk personal datasets. Allows GCHQ to access all data coming out of UK, get all database data from Swansea etc.
        Interception:
            Tapping a phone, musut be authorised by warrent signed by the Secratery of State:
                Product is not currently admissible in court - would only disclose some of the information, as don't want to show the holes in the collection regime.
                GCHQ can scan international communications for "factors" (keywords)
            Some sensible exceptions:
                Delivered data
                Permission from both aprties
                Stored data can be accesseed by production order - just a judge
                Techies running a network, can intercept for debugging
        Lawful Business Practise:
            Reulations describe how not to commit an offence under the RIP/IPA acts. Do not specify how to avoid problems with data protection legislation or other relevant laws.
                Only applies to business
                Must be by system controller
                For recording facts, quality control etc
                Detecting business communications
                Or for keeping the system running
            Must make all reasonable efforts to tell all users that interceptions may occur
            RIP Act 2000 - Encryption:
                Still in place, deals with encryption
                    End of  along road, starting with "key escrow" where encryption keys had to be given to the government
                Basic requirements is to put material into an intelligible form - can be required to decrypt
                    Can apply to messages
                    Stored data 
                    If you claim to have lost or forgotten the key, prosecution must prove otherwise
                Keys can be demanded:
                    Signed by Chief Constable
                    Notice can only be served at top level of company
                    Reasoning must be reported to commissioner - ensure different police forces use the power consistently
                Specific "tipping off" provisions may occur, must not tell anyone you've been served the Notice
    E-Commerce Law:
        Stayed the same after Brexit
        Consumer Rights Directive (2011):
            Remote sellers must identify themselves, and where they're based 
            Details of contract must be delivered, email ok
            Right to cancel (unless service already delivered)
        E-Commerce Directive (2002):
            Online selling and advertising is subject to UK law if you are established in the UK - no matter who you sell to
            Complexities if foreign consumers have rights in their country, the test is if you marketed them. E.g. £ and all in English, clearly advertising to UK people 
            E-Commerce Directive also priveds key immunites for ISPs:
                Hosting, Caching, Mere Conduit - if you do any of those things, not your fault if there's bad things on those.
        Privacy & Electronic Communications:
            Rules on phone directories and location info etc
            Bans unsolicited marketing email to natural persons. But see your ISPs acceptable use policy
            Controls on the use of cookies, superceded by 2010 legislation
                Must give clear and comprehensive information
                AND must have consent ...unless cookies are strictly necessary for provision of an information service
            Was intended to be replaced by time GDPR in force - now left EU not clear what will happen
        Lots of other Legislation!
            Lots more E-Commerce stuff:
                Sale of Goods, Contract law, Unfair terms, Unsolicited faxes etc etc etc
            Lots of rules for adult stuff
                Children stuff illegal
                Extreme porn making + poss illegal
                Obscene publications act - webmaster conviced
            Lots of other specialist issues
                Fund raising for political parties
                Selling age-restricted goods
Lecture 7: 
    Philosophies of Ethics: 
        Ethics:
            Laws are often 10 years behind, and even then don't often fit reality very well
            Practical Ethics - in what circumstances should we restrain ourselves, more than the law requires
            Analogy: medical ethics constrains doctors behaviours - how can we form these for software developers
        Philosophies of ethics:
            Often authority theories arise, coming from religion - these often have disputes that need to be resolved. E.g. should slavery be legal, scriptures often allow for it.
            Intuitionist theories say we can tell what's good or bad - but intuitions can differ. 
            Egoist theories say people act rationally in their own self interest.
            Consequentialism:
                If an act is right or wrong depends only on consequences.
                If more positive acts, the better or more right the act
            Maximise W = \sum U_i , however the consequences cannot be worked out in detail, and welfare is difficult to define.
            Ticking bomb argument, torture should be allowed if terrorist knows the unlock code - does the end justify the means
            Modern debate: act vs rule utilitarianism
            Would you rather be reincarnated in the USA or Portugal - poorer but with better welfare.
            Aristotle: Consequentialist theories are for beasts, you'd be happier if you were stupid. Prefers people acting in accordance with nature and duty
            It's not all about the consequence of actions, but the motives as well.
            The many flavours include Kantian theory of duty - act only on maxims you'd like to be universal, and treat people not as means to an end
            John Rawls Theory of Justice - should make moral decision based on ignorance, ignorance of whether we'll be reincarnated poor or rich - leads to maximising W = \min U_i. 
        Moral Reasoning:
            Koglberg's theory of moral developmentL
            -Pre-conventional:
                Stage 1: Punishment and Obedience (greater the harm the greater the wrong, law breaking morally okay if no punishment)
                Stage 2: Instrumental hedonism (Conformity to gain rewards)
            -Conventional: 
                Stage 3: Conformity, what is right is what your family views as right. Conforming to those rules preserves relationships.
                Stage 4: Authority and social order, what is right is according to authority and duties
            -Post Conventional: 
                Stage 5: Morality of contract, individual right and democratically accepted law. Rules based on concensus, lawbreaking alright if based on social justice and preserving human rights. Changing laws preserved to breaking.
                Stage 7: Morality of universal principles of conscience. Behaving in the way that one believes to be right, hold beliefs and behave in line with them
    Professional codes of Ethics:
        ACM's code of ethics, a computing professional should: 
            Contribute to society and human well-being
            Avoid harm
            Be honest and trustworthy
            Be fair and take action not to discriminate
            Respect the work required to produce new ideas, inventions, creative works, and computing artifacts
            Respect privacy 
            Honour confidentiality
        Responsible vulnerability disclosure:
            If vulnerabilities found, do we keep quiet or tell everyone at once
            Responsible disclosure: confidentially disclose to those that can remedy or mitigate the impacts - heart bleed. Meltdown and spectre
            Bug bounty programs
            Should we make it public, if no efforts are made to fix the bug post responsible disclosure
        Ethics in research
            1940s: Nazi human experiments
            1930-1970s: Tuskegee syphilis experiment
            1970s: Stanford prison experiment
            1960s: The Milgram experiment
            2010s: Facebook emotional manipulation study
            2019: use of organs of executed prisoners without consent in China
            People now screened before research, trauma, mental fortitude etc.
            Nuremberg code:
                Voluntary and informed consent of subjects essential. Must be able to leave the experiment at any time
            Research Ethics Boards  - declaration of Helsinki independent review board or committee
            Research funding bodies must consider ethics
            Program committees and journal editors, consider ethics after research is done but before publishing
            Professional ethical guidelines or codes of practice - ethical framework that provide ethical guidelines
            For Computer science: The Menlo Report:
                Acknowlodges the speed of distributution of computer science research
                Core principles: respect for persons, beneficence (minimze harm, maximize benefits) , justice (risks and benefits distributed fairly) and respect for law & public interest. 
            Your Part II project may involve human experimental subjects
                Independent review by uninvolved scientists greatly reduce risks of civil litigation and criminal prosecution if things go wrong
                Pay attention to the procedures for ethics committee approval - if they say no don't do it (unlike Cambridge Analytica).
