Exam Question 1  
    a.)  Explain the criminal offences created by the various sections of the Computer Misuse Act.  [100 words] 
        Section 1 makes unauthorised access of computer systems a criminal offense, however you have to know that the access is unauthorised. This can carry a maximum 2 year sentence but intent can be difficult to prove leading to large obvious banners parroting legal access rules when you turn on certain computer systems. Section 2 appends the intent to commit another serious offence after unauthorised access, making logging on to someone's computer and reading off their credit card info in order to commit fraud an offence worthy of 5 years in prison. Finally, section 3 covers the modification of items after unauthorised access, meaning writing viruses can now carry a 10 year punishment. This covers DDOS and the creation of hacking tools. 
    b.) What offences are likely to be committed in the following circumstances?
        a.) Alice is clearly running a distributed denial of service attack, and furthermore she is doing it with the intent to harm - I.e. she knows this form of access to the system is unauthorised. Note that if the volunteers were informed of their part in the scheme, they could also be charged. For precedence for this case, we could examine the Wimbledon case where 5 million emails were sent to a company - rendering their email useless. This was classed as a Section 3 offence and carried a prison sentence, while Wimbledon's lawyers used the defence that this usage of the system is legal as if 1 or 2 emails were sent that would be fine (so why not 5,000,000), however the test of reasonable use of a system should be "what would the system owners say if you were to ask them if you could use the system in this way" - and of course the use would be disallowed in Alice's case. Furthermore, denial of service attacks were specifically added to the law in 2008 meaning her attack would definitely be a section 3 offence which could lead to jail time of up to 10 years. Always discuss precedent - write notes on that. 
        b.) Bob has committed three (or possibly four) separate infractions of Section 3 of the computer misuse act. Firstly, illegally accessed a website and modified it without the permission of the owners. Secondly, he has distributed a virus to customers, e.g. software that uses the customers computers in a way they gave no permission for. Thirdly, he is running a Denial of service attack on the baking firm. And finally, he could be accused of distributing hacking tools to all that installed the software - but this would be more debateable, as the customers would have no idea of the tools existence.  Overall, this could result in a combined jail sentence of up to 40 years as Bob has committed multiple severe criminal offences.  Apparently section 1 in there? 
Exam Question 2
    You have an opportunity to resell limited supplies of a discontinued model of printer at a good price.  You have doubts about how reliable the printers will be. You will sell them through a website, and want to avoid becoming committed to sell more.  
    a.) How do you plan to set up your website and use the law of contract to achieve these results? [200 words]
        I would have to make clear the difference between offering the printer, and "inviting the customer to treat" where the customer makes the offer for the printer (at the specified price) and I can choose to accept or decline the offer (meaning if I have no more to sell, I can decline the offer). This can be done by creating a Terms of Service document and linking to it clearly on the website, this should be done with the advice of a lawyer to ensure no loopholes exist. I should also draw up an electronic contract describing that the offer is an invitation to treat, and also iron out details about defective goods. Due to our limited stock, defective items should be repaired or refunded - we must make clear in the contract that the item will not be replaced. Then once they electronically accept the contract, it is legally binding. Jurisdiction need to remember that it's handled through English/Welsh law.  
    b.)  How effective will you be? [100 words]
        My effectiveness would be in question if the lack of a replacement policy was taken to court, as the customer has the right to the repair or replacement of an item within 6 years if it was faulty. So if I am unable to repair the item (and all my printers have sold out) the customer could take me to court, and dispute the contract as being unfair to the consumer. In this case a legal battle would ensue, and the results would indicate my effectiveness. The "invitation to treat" is a well known practise, and would be effective.  
Exam Question 3
    You are commissioned by a customer to design a toy robot that children will be able to control using a smartphone app. This app will also enable them to program the robot using a simple scripting language. To simplify the networking, all communications between the app and the robot flow over Wi-Fi via your server.  
    a.) Discuss the ethical and legal implications. [200 words]
        The legal implications include problems of ensuring intellectual property rights around the scripts that customers use, ensuring we are not liable for any harm caused by the robot (ensuring the correct usage is explained in the TOS) and ensuring correct functionality. Furthermore, because the communications are routed through our servers, precautions must be taken so we act as a mere conduit. This gives the legal defence that we are not liable for damage caused by the customers use of the robot. We must make it clear in the contract, that we are not liable for scripts written that cause harm (if the script executes correctly). We must ensure the parents sign for this contract in order for it to be legally binding. May have to employ a Data protection officer depending on the scale.
        Ethically, we would like to ensure the robot cannot cause harm - and abort operation if triggers that predict harm are found. However, we have the simultaneous responsibility of respect for persons and our customer may use the tool without our meddling. We would like to uphold the law, but this could require inspection of the users code that could be viewed as a breach of privacy. Additionally, we must take into account that the users of the system are children - non-rational actors who do not have the sense to analyse a harmful use of the robot. One solution could be to make the robot very weak, so certain harmful manipulations of it are impossible. Hardware, if it breaks shouldn't hurt the child 
    b.)  Your customer decides to incorporate a microphone so that the robot can also recognise  spoken commands. To save battery life, the speech recognition will be done in the server.  What effect does this have on the ethical and legal situation? [200 words]   
        The legal situation now must include accordance to GDPR laws, as we are processing data about our customers. We must ensure the data is processed lawfully, used only for the stated purpose, the data is not kept after it is no longer needed and the processing of the data is secure enough to ensure no loss or damage to the data. We are also under obligations to keep internal records of the database as well as garner consent from our customers (must get permission from parents!). Finally, we must ensure that a process is in place so customers can retrieve any data stored about them - the simple solution being to very temporarily store the data while processing it, and promptly delete it afterwards. 
        The ethical situation changes slightly as we now have more sensitive data, that could include information from parties other than our client. The ACM code of ethics would have us respect privacy and honour confidentiality, meaning very few people should have access to the data. Additionally, we should ensure the models we use for speech recognition are not discriminatory - although there are limits, as we should not be expected to provide a universal translator for all languages if the product is only sold in England. If vulnerabilities are found we have an ethical (and legal) obligation to disclose that to the government and to parents.
    c.) What practical advice can you give your customer about mitigating the legal risks? [200  words]  
        Ensure data is stored no longer than it is needed, ideally the data should be discarded immediately after processing, this protects against GDPR laws and removes the need for a data handover mechanism. Ensure the toy is not strong enough to commit harm in obvious ways like speeding into people, this protects them from liability. Collect the parents consent before the child is allowed to use the system. Hire security experts to decrease the likelihood of a data breach or hacking, they should then implement a bug bounty program to ensure problems are caught. Ensure no data is sent from the robot to the server when the user is not trying to use it, an initiation phrase akin to 'hey Siri' or 'ok google' should be implemented. Needs to be distinct so not accidentally activated 
    d.) Your customer now wants to include a camera so that the robot can recognise gestures as  well. Does this create any further ethical or legal risks, and if so, what might be done about  them? [200 words]  
        Some further legal risks are included around the photography of children, these data are far more sensitive than audio data and the punishment for failure to uphold GDPR could be much greater. One solution to this is to disregard battery life when this feature is used, and have all the processing done on the device; meaning the data is never held on our customers servers. This also ensures we are never in possession of any illegal data. It must be made very clear and the parents should have to give informed consent that the data is to be sent to our servers if this is not put in place. Alternative is to send features like edges, no sensitive data held 
        Further ethical risks arise as this is information that can be used to identify the user and anyone in the scope of the camera, meaning the data should be kept with the upmost privacy. 
    e.)  How might the situation be affected by Brexit? [200 words]  
        While the UK is no longer a part of the EU and GDPR laws cover handling of EU based citizens, it is unlikely that GDPR will be discarded in the UK. This is because, significant altering of the GDPR laws could result in the EU deciding the UK is an unsafe place for data to be sent - vastly reducing the possible customers to UK businesses that handle data from EU citizens. However, slight altercations to the laws could occur post Brexit. E-commerce laws relating to running of the business are also unchanged after Brexit, and laws around when you need permission from parents always differed between the EU and Britain (and thus will be unchanged). If gap between UK and EU laws, would need a dedicated EU server 
Exercise 1:
    (a) Describe three different philosophies of ethics. [300 words]   
        Consequentialism states that actions should be decided right or wrong, dependent only on their consequences. Furthermore, more positive results leads to an act that is "more right" and the opposite for more negative results. We with to maximise W = \sum U_i. However, utilitarianism requires perfect knowledge of all situations in order to assess all the good and bad consequences of an action (knowledge that any actors within such a system cannot have) it additionally requires a method of deciding if an action is good or bad and how good or bad an action is. 
        The veil of ignorance or Original position, this is a thought experiment where rule makers are given no knowledge of their family, wealth, race or creed before they are reincarnated into society - it harnesses peoples natural self interest and funnels it into the creation of a fair society. Clearly, this is because you would imagine people would want the best life possible for themselves regardless of where/to whom they are born. This could potentially suffer issues depending on the values of the rule makers, one could imagine someone who would rather die be poor who gives half the population all the resources and flips the coin to establish their life.
        The Kantian theory of duty states that an action is morally correct, if it would be willed to be a universal law. Additionally, one should treat people as an end in themselves not simply a means to an end (this could be seem as an instantiation of the first law). This mimics ideas found in many religious texts, where one should treat others as you would wish to be treated. This does face problems of perspective, as while some people would wish things to be universal law, others may not - for example an exhibitionist could be thrilled at clothes being made illegal, to the dismay of everyone in cold climates.
    b.) Which of these philosophies might be more, or less, attractive to a successful businessman  who made his money from coal or steel? Justify your answer. [200 words]
        Clearly the Kantian philosophy does not hold, as to be truly successful in business one must often treat people as pawns - additionally, they may not the utilisation of fossil fuels to become a universal law. The veil of ignorance could be more appealing, as highly successful individuals are often benefited the best upbringing - however they may balk at their hard earned money being redistributed to allow for such a scheme to take effect. Consequentialism may be their best option as there are effects that are impossible to observe, for example while the employment of people within the business is obviously positive the effects of pollution are less obvious. Additionally, one brings ones own moral compass to Consequentialism when it is decided how virtuous an action is - and the businessman may attribute his own morals as he sees fit.


